# Module 2: Integrating on-premises Active Directory with Azure
# Lab: Implementing directory synchronization
  
### Scenario
  You are working as an administrator at Adatum Corporation. You provisioned a new Azure subscription and created an Azure AD tenant for your domain. Now you want to implement directory synchronization between your on-premises AD DS and Azure AD. In addition, you want to explore all the available options for directory synchronization.


### Objectives
  After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Implement and configure Azure AD Connect.
- Manage directory synchronization.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  Estimated time: 45 minutes

Virtual machines:  **10993B-LON-DC1**,  **10993B-LON-DS1**

User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

In all tasks:

- When you see references to  **_Adatumyyxxxx_.onmicrosoft.com**, replace  **_Adatumyyxxxx_** with the unique domain name that you chose when you created a custom domain in the lab in Module 1, "Introducing Azure AD."
- Replace all instances of  **_yourdomain_** with your unique domain name that appears on the online lab portal.
- Replace all instances of  **_hostdomain.com_** with the complete domain name of your lab hosting provider.
- When you see references to the account associated with your Azure AD trial subscription, you should use the account that you created in Exercise 1, "Activating Azure AD and Office 365 trial subscriptions," of the lab in Module 1, "Introducing Azure AD."

To complete this lab successfully, you must first complete all lab tasks in Module 1.


## Exercise 1: Implementing Azure AD Connect
  
### Scenario

  To establish directory synchronization between your on-premises AD DS and Azure AD, you must implement and configure Azure AD Connect. First, you will change the UPN for your users in AD DS, so they use a custom domain that you prepared for sync. After that, you will install and configure available options to establish and verify directory synchronization between AD DS and Azure AD.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Configure a UPN and sync account
2.  Install and configure Azure AD Connect
3.  Verify synchronization


#### Task 1: Configure a UPN and sync account
  
1.  On  **LON-DC1**, open Active Directory Domains and Trusts, and add Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com as an Alternate UPN Suffix.
2.  By using Windows PowerShell, update the UPN on every user in AD DS with "@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com" for the domain name. To do this, use the following command:

  ```
  Get-ADUser -Filter * -Properties SamAccountName | foreach { Set-ADUser $_ -UserPrincipalName ($_.SamAccountName + "@yourdomain.hostdomain.com" )}
  ```

3.  Use the Azure portal to create an account for directory synchronization. Name the account  **sync@adatumyyxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, and then set its password to  _your password_. Assign the Global Admin role to the sync account.
4.  Use the Azure portal to change the primary domain for the  **Adatum** tenant to be your custom domain (yourdomain.hostdomain.com).


#### Task 2: Install and configure Azure AD Connect
  
1.  Download the Azure AD Connect software from  **http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=47594**.
2.  Run the installation wizard.
3.  Choose to customize the installation options.
4.  Use the  **Sync** account created in the previous task to connect to Azure AD.
5.  Use the  **Adatum\\Administrator** account to connect to the local AD DS.
6.  Choose to create a new account for sync purposes.
7.  Ensure that your custom domain is listed as verified. Ensure that in the  **USER PRINCIPAL NAME** drop-down list, the **userPrincipalName** value is selected.
8.  Choose to sync the following OUs:  **Computers**,  **IT**,  **Managers**,  **Marketing**,  **Research**, and  **Sales**.
9.  Enable  **Password synchronization**.
10.  Complete the wizard and start the sync.


#### Task 3: Verify synchronization
  - Sign in to the Azure Management portal, and then verify that synchronization is complete by browsing the synchronized objects on the  **USERS** and **GROUPS** tabs.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have implemented Azure AD Connect successfully.


## Exercise 2: Managing directory synchronization
  
### Scenario
  After you have established directory synchronization, you want to configure synchronization options. You must configure filtering so that you can use one specific attribute to exclude user objects from synchronization. In addition, you want to evaluate how synchronization behaves when you move users in and out of the synchronization scope.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Configure synchronization filtering and scheduling
2.  Create a new user and a group account in AD DS
3.  Modifying directory synchronization options and moving users in and out of the sync scope
4.  Force synchronization
5.  Verify that synchronization was successful
6.  Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: Configure synchronization filtering and scheduling
  
1.  On  **LON-DS1**, configure the Active Directory Connector in Synchronization Service Manager for the  **Research** OU.
2.  On  **LON-DS1**, use the S **ynchronization Rules Editor** to configure a filter on the inbound synchronization rule with the following information:

  - Name:  **In from AD - User DoNotSyncFilter**
  - Connected System:  **Adatum.com**
  - CS Object Type:  **User**
  - Metaverse Object Type:  **Person**
  - Link Type:  **Join**
  - Precedence:  **50**
  - Scoping filter:

    - Attribute:  **MSDS-cloudExtensionAttribute15**
    - Operator:  **EQUAL**
    - Value:  **NoSync**

  - Transformation:

    - FlowType:  **Constant**
    - Target Attribute:  **cloudFiltered**
    - Source:  **True**

3.  Use Windows PowerShell to start the synchronization by executing the following command: 

```
Start-ADSyncSyncCycle -PolicyType Initial
```


#### Task 2: Create a new user and a group account in AD DS
  
1.  On  **LON-DC1**, use Active Directory Users and Computers to create the following user in the  **Research** OU:

  - First name:  **Perry**
  - Last name:  **Brill**
  - User sign-in name:  **Perry yourdomain.hostdomain.com**
  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**
  - Ensure that the  **User must change password at next logon** check box is not selected.
  - Select  **Password never expires**.
  - Email:  **Perry@yourdomain.hostdomain.com**

2.  Use Active Directory Users and Computers to create the following group in the  **Research** OU:

  - Group name:  **Project Team**
  - Group scope:  **Universal**
  - Group type:  **Security**
  - Email: projectteam\@yourdomain.hostdomain.com
  - Members:  **Arturs Priede**,  **Cai Chu**,  **Claire Roberson**


#### Task 3: Modifying directory synchronization options and moving users in and out of the sync scope
  
1.  On  **LON-DS1**, open the Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell.
2.  Use the  **Connect-MsolService** cmdlet to connect to Azure AD.
3.  Use  **Get-MsolUser** cmdlet to search for the **Vera** account.
4.  In your local AD DS, move users  **Vera Pace** and **Ada Russel** from the **Research** OU to the **Users** container.
5.  Remove users  **Camille Morrow**,  **Connie Vaughn**, and  **Finlay Butcher** from the **Research** group.


#### Task 4: Force synchronization

  - On  **LON-DS1**, use Windows PowerShell to force an unscheduled, delta directory synchronization. Use the  **Start-ADSyncSyncCycle** cmdlet.


#### Task 5: Verify that synchronization was successful
  
1.  Use the  **Get-MsolGroup** cmdlet to list groups synchronized to Azure AD.
2.  Verify that you see the  **Research** and **Project Team** groups.
3.  Use the  **Get-MsolGroupMember** cmdlet to verify that group membership has been updated based on changes you performed in the local AD DS.
4.  Use the  **Get-Msoluser** cmdlet to verify that Vera Pace does not exist in Azure AD after the last sync.


#### Task 6: Prepare for the next module

  - Leave all virtual machines running

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured synchronization options.

  
### Review question(s)
  

**Question** 
What was the purpose of adding new UPN to users locally?

**Question** 
What are some benefits of using filtering options in Azure AD Connect?



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
