# Lab Answer Key:  Module 6: Monitoring Azure AD
# Lab: Configuring reporting and monitoring
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring Azure AD reports and notifications
  
#### Task 1: Review Azure AD reports
  
1.  On  **LON-DS1**, open Internet Explorer, and then go to  **https://portal.azure.com**.
2.  Sign in with the administrator account associated with your Azure AD trial tenant.
3.  On the Azure portal, click the  **Azure Active Directory** item in the left navigation pane.
4.  On the  **adatum Overview** directory page, in the middle navigation pane, in the **ACTIVITY** section, click **Audit logs**.
5.  Explore the results in the right pane. You will probably see many activities initiated by the account used for directory synchronization. Ensure that  **Date Range** is set to **7 days**.
6.  In the  **Activity Resource Type** drop-down list, select **User**, and then click  **Apply**. Review the results filtered for user objects.
7.  In the  **ACTIVITY** section, click the **Sign-ins** report, and then verify that you see sign-ins that you used in this course. Click the sign-in data of your choice and explore details in the right pane.
8.  In the middle navigation pane, click  **Notification settings**. Review the available settings. 
9.  In the middle navigation pane, click  **Properties**. If the  **Message from webpage** window appears, click **OK**. Review the available settings.
10.  Leave the Azure portal open.


#### Task 2: Configure Azure AD notifications
  
1.  On the Azure portal, if needed, click  **Azure Active Directory**.
2.  In the middle navigation pane, click  **Password reset**.
3.  In the  **Password reset - Properties** pane, click **Notifications**.
4.  For the  **Notify all admins when other admins reset their password?** option, click **Yes**.
5.  Ensure that the  **Notify users on password resets?** option has a status of **Yes**, and then click  **Save**.
6.  Close Internet Explorer.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have successfully configured Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) password reset notifications.


## Exercise 2: Configuring Azure AD monitoring
  
#### Task 1: Install and configure Azure AD Connect Health for AD FS
  
1.  On  **LON-DS1**, open Internet Explorer, and then go to  **https://portal.azure.com**.
2.  Sign in as  **msinder\@_adatumyyxxxx_.onmicrosoft.com**, and then click  **All Services** in the left navigation pane.
3.  In the list of services, click  **Azure AD Connect Health**.
4.  Ensure that the  **Azure Active Directory Connect Health** pane opens.
5.  In the  **Azure Active Directory Connect Health** pane, in the **Azure Active Directory Connect (Sync)** section, click Sync **errors**, and then review the report.
6.  Click  **Sync services,** and then in the right pane, ensure that the status for your tenant is **Healthy**.
7.  Click the  **Quick Start** icon in the **Azure Active Directory Connect Health** pane, click **Download Azure AD Connect Health Agent for AD FS**, and then click  **Run** when prompted. Note: If necessary, add http://download.microsoft.com to your **Trusted Sites** zone in Internet Explorer.
8.  In the  **Azure AD Connect Health AD FS agent** window, click **Install**.
9.  When the installation completes, click  **Configure Now**.
10.  When prompted, sign in as  **msnider\@_adatumyyxxxx_.onmicrosoft.com**. A Windows PowerShell command-line interface window will open.
11.  Wait until the configuration completes; you will receive an "Agent registration completed with warning(s)" message. This is expected and does not prevent the service from working properly. Close the  **Windows PowerShell** window.
12.  Switch to Internet Explorer, where you have the Azure portal open, and in the middle navigation pane, click  **AD FS Services**. 
13.  In the right pane, review the status. Ensure that your domain reports a  **Healthy** status.
14.  Click  **Healthy** and then review the detailed report.
15.  Close Internet Explorer. 


#### Task 2: Install and configure Azure AD Connect Health for AD DS
  
1.  On  **LON-DC1**, open Internet Explorer, and then go to  **https://portal.azure.com**. 
2.  Sign in as  **msnider\@_adatumyyxxxx_.onmicrosoft.com**, and then click  **All Services**.
3.  In the list of services, click  **Azure AD Connect Health**.
4.  Click the  **Quick Start** icon, click **Download Azure AD Connect Health Agent for AD DS**, and then click  **Run** when prompted. Note: If necessary, add http://download.microsoft.com to your **Trusted Sites** zone in Internet Explorer.
5.  In the  **MicrosoftAzure AD Connect Health agent for AD DS** window, click **Install**.
6.  When installation completes, click  **Configure Now**.
7.  When prompted, sign in as  **msnider\@adatumyyxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**. A Windows PowerShell command-line interface window will open.
8.  Wait until the configuration completes; you will receive an "Agent registration completed successfully" message. Close the Windows PowerShell window.
9.  Switch to Internet Explorer, where you have the Azure portal open, and ensure that you still have the  **Azure Active Directory Connect Health** page open.
10.  In the middle navigation pane, click  **AD DS services**.
11.  Review the status in the right pane and ensure that it is  **Healthy** for your domain.
12.  Click  **Adatum.com** and then review the detailed report.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have successfully configured Azure AD Connect Health for Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) and Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS).



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
