# Lab Answer Key:  Module 4: Configuring and protecting authentication in hybrid environments
# Lab: Configuring authentication in hybrid environments
  
## Exercise 1: Implementing user password reset policy
  
#### Task 1: Configure password policy and enabling password writeback in Azure AD
  
1.  On  **LON-DS1**, on the desktop, double-click  **Azure AD Connect**. 
2.  On the  **Welcome to Azure AD Connect** page, click **Configure**.
3.  On the  **Additional tasks** page, click **Customize synchronization options**, and then click  **Next**.
4.  On the  **Connect to Azure AD** page, type **SYNC\@_adatumyyxxxx_.onmicrosoft.com** in the **USERNAME** text box, type _your password_ in the **PASSWORD** text box, and then click **Next**.
5.  On the  **Connect to your directories** page, click **Next**.
6.  On the  **Domain and OU filtering** page, click **Next**.
7.  On the  **Optional features** page, select **Password writeback**, and then click  **Next**.
8.  On the  **Ready to configure** page, click **Configure**.
9.  On the  **Configurationcomplete** page, click **Exit**.
10.  On  **LON-DS1**, open Internet Explorer and go to  **https://portal.azure.com**.
11.  Sign in with the administrator account associated with your Azure trial subscription.
12.  In the Azure portal, click  **Azure Active Directory**.
13.  In the left navigation pane, click  **Password reset**.
14.  To enable self- service password reset for all users, in the  **Password reset - Properties** window, click **All**. Click  **Save**.
15.  On the  **Password reset - Properties** page, click **Authentication methods**.
16.  For the methods available to users, ensure that  **Mobile Phone** and **Email** are selected, and then select **Security Questions**.
17.  For the  **number of questions required to register**, select  **3**.
18.  For the  **number of questions required to reset**, select  **3**.
19.  In the  **Select security questions** section, click **No security questions configured**, then click  **Predefined**, select three questions of your choice, and then click  **OK** twice.
20.  Click  **Save**.
21.  Click  **Registration**. For the  **Require users to register when signing in** option, click **No**.
22.  In the middle pane, click  **On-premises integration**.
23.  Verify that your on-premises writeback client is running and that  **Yes** is selected for the **Write back passwords to your on-premises directory** option.
24.  Close the Internet Explorer browser window, and then reopen it. 


#### Task 2: Configure self-service password reset
  
1.  In Internet Explorer, browse to  **https://myapps.microsoft.com**. If you are already signed in, sign out.
2.  Click  **Use another account**.
3.  Type  **Abbi\@_yourdomain_._hostdomain_.com**, and then, when prompted, sign in as  **Abbi\@_yourdomain_. _hostdomain_.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
4.  On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, in the top right corner, click the **Abbi** account, and then click **Profile**.
5.  Click  **Set up self service password reset**.
6.  On the  **don't lose access to your account** page, for the **Authentication Phone** option, click **Set it up now**.
7.  Choose your country or region, type your mobile phone number, and then click  **text me**.
8.  Type the number that you receive in a text message in the text box below, and then click  **verify**.
9.  For the  **email** option, click **Set it up now**. Type your Microsoft account address that you created in the first lab. Click  **email me**.
10.  Sign in to  **outlook.com** with your Microsoft account credentials, read the code, type it in the verification field, and then click **Verify**. Note: If you don't find a message with a code in your inbox, check the junk folder.
11.  On the  **don't lose access to your account!** page, click **finish**.
12.  On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, click the **Abbi** account, and then click **Profile**.
13.  In the Azure portal, click  **Change password**.
14.  On the  **change password** page, in the **Old password** text box, type **Pa55w.rd**, in the  **Create new password** and the **Confirm new password** text boxes, type **Moc10993B**, and then click  **submit**.
15.  Wait until the Microsoft Azure profile portal appears, and then close the Internet Explorer browser window. 


#### Task 3: Verify password writeback
  
1.  Ensure that you are signed in to  **LON-DS1**.
2.  Open a  **Windows Azure Active Directory Module for PowerShell** window from the desktop.
3.  At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Start-ADSyncSyncCycle -PolicyType Delta
  ```

4.  Wait for approximately four minutes.
5.  Close Windows PowerShell, and then switch to  **LON-CL1**. Sign out if needed.
6.  Try to sign in to  **LON-CL1** as **Adatum\\Abbi** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
7.  Ensure that you get the message that the user name or password is incorrect.
8.  Try to sign in to  **LON-CL1** as **Adatum\\Abbi** with the password **Moc10993B**. You should be able to sign in. This confirms that the password you changed in the Azure portal is written back to your local Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS). 

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully configured the user password reset policy.


## Exercise 2: Implementing Multi-Factor Authentication
  
#### Task 1: Enable Multi-Factor Authentication
  
1.  On the taskbar on  **LON-CL1**, click  **Microsoft Edge**.
2.  In the Microsoft Edge window, in the address box, type  **https://portal.azure.com**, and then press Enter.
3.  On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, type the credentials for the account associated with your Azure trial subscription.
4.  Click the  **Azure Active Directory** item.
5.  Click  **Users**, and then click  **All users**.
6.  Click  **Multi-Factor Authentication** on the toolbar. If this option does not appear on the toolbar, click **More** and then click **Multi-Factor Authentication.**
7.  On the  **multi-factor authentication** page, click **users**.
8.  In the  **users** list, select the check box for **Abbi Skinner**, and then in the  **quick steps** section, click **Enable**. 
9.  On the  **About enabling multi-factor auth** page, click **enable multi-factor auth**.
10.  On the  **Updates successful** page, click **close**.
11.  Close the Microsoft Edge browser window, and then reopen it.


#### Task 2: Use Multi-Factor Authentication
  
1.  On  **LON-CL1**, in the Microsoft Edge browser window, type  **portal.office.com**, and then press  **Enter**.
2.  On the  **Office 365 sign in** page, in the **user name** text box, type **Abbi\@_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com**. 
3.  On the  **Adatum Corporation** sign-in page, in the **password** text box, type **Moc10993B**, and then click  **Sign in**.
4.  On the  **More information required** page, click **Next**.
5.  On the  **Additional security verification** page, ensure that **Authentication phone** is selected in the first drop-down list and that your mobile phone number appears in the text boxes below. If it does not, type your mobile phone number.
6.  In the  **Method** section, select **Send me a code by text message**.
7.  Click  **Next**.
8.  Look for the text message on your mobile phone, type the code from the message in the text box, and then click  **Verify**.
9.  On the  **Additional security verification** page, click **Done**.
10.  Close Microsoft Edge, and then reopen it.
11.  In the Microsoft Edge browser window, type  **portal.office.com**, and then press Enter.
12.  On the  **Office 365sign in** page, click **Abbi\@_yourdomain.hostdomain_.com**.
13.  On the  **Adatum Corporation** sign-in page, in the **password** text box, type **Moc10993B**, and then click  **Sign in**.
14.  Ensure that you get a text message on your phone.
15.  Type the code from the message in the text box on the sign-in page, and then click  **Verify**.
16.  Ensure that you are signed in to Office 365.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully configured Azure Multi-Factor Authentication.


## Exercise 3: Implementing on-premises Multi-Factor Authentication Server
  
#### Task 1: Install Multi-Factor Authentication Server
  
1.  If required, sign in to  **LON-SVR1** as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.  Open an Internet Explorer browser window, and then go to  **https://portal.azure.com**.
3.  Sign in to Azure with the account that is associated with your Azure trial subscription. If the  **Stay signed in** prompt appears, click **Yes**.
4.  In the Azure portal, click the  **Azure Active Directory** item.
5.  In the middle navigation pane, click  **MFA Server**.
6.  In the right navigation pane, under  **Download the server from the Download Center**, click  **Download**. On the  **Azure Multi-Factor Authentication Server** webpage, click **Download**.
7.  Select the  **MultiFactorAuthenticationServerSetup.exe** file and then click **Next**. Note: If necessary, add https://download.microsoft.com to your Trusted Sites zone in Internet Explorer. Click  **Save**.
8.  While the server setup file downloads, return to the  **Server settings** page in the Azure portal, and then click **Generate** to generate activation credentials.
9.  Copy the Email and Password credentials provided below the  **Generate Activation Credentials** button to Notepad.
10.  When the download job completes, open File Explorer from the taskbar, go to the  **Downloads** folder, and then double-click the **MultiFactorAuthenticationServerSetup** file.
11.  In the  **Security Warning** window, if it appears, click **Run**.
12.  If the prompt to install Visual C++ components appears, click  **Install**.
13.  In the  **Microsoft Visual C++ 2015 Redistributable** window, select the option **I agree to the license terms and conditions**, click  **Install**, and then click  **Close**. Repeat this step once more if needed.
14.  On the  **License Agreement** page, click **I Agree**, and then click  **Next**.
15.  On the  **Select Installation Folder** page, click **Next**.
16.  On the  **Installation Complete** page, click **Finish**.
17.  On the  **Activate** page, type the credentials that you generated in step 7, and then click **Activate**.
18.  On the  **Join Group** page, click **OK**.
19.  At the prompt to enable replication between servers, click  **No**.
20.  Click  **Tools**, and then click  **Authentication Configuration Wizard**.
21.  On the  **Select Applications** page, select **VPN**, and then click  **Next**.
22.  Leave the installation wizard open on the  **VPN with RADIUS** page.


#### Task 2: Configure Multi-Factor Authentication Server for VPN
  
1.  Switch to  **LON-SVR2**, open  **Server Manager**, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Routing and Remote Access**.
2.  In the  **Routing and Remote Access** window, right-click **LON-SVR2 (local)**, and then click  **Configure and Enable Routing and Remote Access**.
3.  On the  **Welcome to the Routing and Remote Access Server Setup Wizard** page, click **Next**.
4.  On the  **Configuration** page, select **Remote access (dial-up or VPN)**, and then click  **Next**.
5.  On the  **Remote Access** page, select **VPN**, and then click  **Next**.
6.  On the  **VPN Connection** page, select the network interface with the IP address **131.107.0.1**, and then click  **Next**.
7.  On the  **IP Address Assignment** page, select **Automatically**, and then click  **Next**.
8.  On the  **Managing Multiple Remote Access Server** page, select **Yes, setup this server to work with a RADIUS server**, and then click  **Next**.
9.  On the  **RADIUS Server Selection** page, type **lon-svr1.adatum.com** in the **Primary RADIUS server** text box, type **Pa55w.rd** in the **Shared secret** text box, click **Next**, click  **Finish**, and then click  **OK** in the Routing and Remote access prompt window.
10.  Right-click  **LON-SVR2 (local)**, and then select  **Properties**.
11.  Click the  **Security** tab, ensure that **RADIUS Authentication** is selected as the **Authentication provider**, and then click  **Configure**.
12.  In the  **RADIUS Authentication** window, select **lon-svr1.adatum.com**, and then click  **Edit**.
13.  In the  **Edit RADIUS Server** window, type **60** in the **Time-out (seconds)** text box.
14.  Click  **OK** three times.
15.  Switch back to  **LON-SVR1**. 
16.  On the  **VPN with RADIUS** page, type **10.0.0.14** in the **VPN server IP** text box, type **Pa55w.rd** in the **Shared secret** and **Confirm shared secret** text boxes, and then click **Next**.
17.  On the  **VPN Target** page, select **Windows domain**, and then click  **Next**.
18.  On the  **VPN Configuration Complete** click **Next**.
19.  On the  **Finish** page, if you see the option **Reboot now**, select it, and then click  **Finish**. Wait until the server reboots. If the option to reboot the server is not available, skip to step 23.
20.  Sign in to  **LON-SVR1** as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
21.  Click  **Start** to open the **Start** menu.
22.  Click  **Multi-Factor Authentication Server**.
23.  In the  **Multi-Factor Authentication Server** window, click **Users** in the left pane.
24.  Click  **Import from Active Directory**....
25.  In the  **Import from Active Directory** window, click **Import**, click  **OK**, and then click  **Close**.
26.  In the list of users, double-click  **Administrator\@_yourdomain.hostdomain_.com**.
27.  In the  **Edit User** window, click the **Administrator** tab, select **User is a User Portal Administrator**, click  **Apply**, and then click  **Close**.
28.  In the list of users, double-click  **Abbi\@_yourdomain.hostdomain_.com**.
29.  In the  **Edit User** window, on the **General** tab, select the **Enabled** check box, select your country from the **Country code** drop-down list, and then in the **Phone** text box, type your mobile phone number.
30.  Ensure that  **Phone call** is selected with the **Standard** option.
31.  On the  **Advanced** tab, in the **Phone call language** drop-down list, find and select your language, click **Apply**, and then click  **Close**.

  >  **Note:** If you can't find your language, select **en:English**.

32.  In the  **Multi-Factor Authentication Server** window, click **RADIUS Authentication** in the left pane.
33.  In the right pane, click  **10.0.0.14**, and then click  **Edit**.
34.  In the  **Edit RADIUS Client** window, select **Require Multi-Factor Authentication user match**, and then click  **OK**.


#### Task 3: Test Multi-Factor Authentication Server in the VPN scenario
  
1.  Switch to  **LON-CL1**.
2.  Click  **Start**, click  **Settings**, and then click  **Network &amp; Internet**.
3.  In the  **NETWORK &amp; INTERNET** window, in the left pane, click **VPN**.
4.  Click  **Add a VPN connection**.
5.  In the  **Add a VPN connection** window, select **Windows (built-in)** for VPN provider, type **SVR2 VPN** in the **Connection name** text box, type **131.107.0.1** in the **Server name or address** text box, select **Point to Point Tunneling Protocol (PPTP)** in the **VPNtype** drop-down box, select **User name and password** for the **Typeof sign-in info**, and then click  **Save**.
6.  Right-click the  **Network** icon in the taskbar, and then select **Open Network and Sharing Center**.
7.  In the  **Network and Sharing Center** window, click **Change adapter settings**.
8.  In the  **Network Connections** window, right-click the **SVR2 VPN** connection, and then select **Properties**.
9.  In the  **SVR2 VPN Properties** window, click the **Security** tab.
10.  Click  **Allow these protocols**, and then click  **OK**.
11.  Right-click  **SVR2 VPN**, and then select  **Connect / Disconnect**.
12.  In the  **NETWORK &amp; INTERNET** window, click **SVR2 VPN**, and then click  **Connect**.
13.  In the  **Sign in** window, in the **User name** text box, type **Abbi\@_yourdomain.hostdomain_.com**, in the  **Password** text box, type **Moc10993B**, and then click  **OK**.
14.  Your phone will ring. Answer the call, and then press # on your phone keyboard.
15.  Ensure that you established a VPN connection. If you get a time-out error, repeat steps 11-15.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  - Leave all the virtual machines running.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully implemented Azure Multi-Factor Authentication Server for the virtual private network (VPN) scenario.



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
