# Lab Answer Key:  Module 5: Deploying Azure Information Protection with on-premises services
# Lab: Implementing Azure Information Protection
  
## Exercise 1: Enabling and configuring Azure Information Protection
  
#### Task 1: Activate Azure Information Protection
  
1.  On  **LON-DS1**, in Internet Explorer, navigate to the Microsoft Office 365 portal at  **https://portal.office.com**.
2.  On the  **Office 365 sign-in** page, use your account that is associated with your Azure trial subscription and then click **Admin**.
3.  On the  **Office 365 admin center** page, if the **Welcome to the new Office 365 admin center** or **Manage Office** **365 on the go** window displays, close it.
4.  In the left pane, click  **Users**, and then click  **Active Users**.
5.  Click user  **Abbie Parsons**.
6.  In the right pane, under the  **Product licenses** section, click **Edit**.
7.  In the  **Product licenses** window, click the **[Select a location]** drop-down list box, and then click your country/region. If your location is not listed, select **United States**.
8.  Select the  **Enterprise Mobility + Security E5** switch, select the **Office 365 Enterprise E5** switch, click **Save**, and then click  **Close** twice.
9.  Repeat steps 5 through 8 for user  **Adam Hobbs**.
10.  On  **LON-DC1**, click the  **Internet Explorer** icon on the taskbar.
11.  Navigate to https://portal.azure.com and sign in with your account associated with your Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) trial.
12.  In the Azure portal, click  **All** **services**, and then type  **Azure Information Protection** in the search box.
13.  Click the star icon next to the  **Azure Information Protection** item and then click **Azure Information Protection** in the left navigation bar.
14.  On the  **Azure Information Protection** page, click **Protection activation** in the middle navigation pane.
15.  Ensure that the protection status is  **activated** in the right pane.
16.  Leave the Azure portal open.


#### Task 2: Configure Azure Information Protection labels
  
1.  In the Azure portal, click  **Azure Information Protection** in the left navigation pane.
2.  Click  **Policies** and verify that **Global policy** is present.
3.  Click  **Labels**.
4.  In the right pane, click  **Add a new label**.
5.  In the Label pane, in the  **Label name** text box, type **Adatum Documents Protection**.
6.  In the  **Description** field, type any text.
7.  In the  **Color** drop-down box, select the color of your choice.
8.  In the  **Set permissions for documents and emails containing this label** section, click **Protect**.
9.  Click  **Protection** **Azure (cloud key)**. 
10.  In the Protection pane, select  **Set permissions**, and then click  **Add permissions**.
11.  On the  **Add permissions** page, select **Add Adatum Corp - All members**.
12.  In the  **Choose permissions from preset or set custom** section, click **Viewer**, and then click  **OK**.
13.  On the  **Protection** page, set **Content expiration** to **By days**, type  **7**, and then click  **OK**.
14.  In the  **Set visual marking (such as header or footer)** section, click **On** for **Documents with this label have header**.
15.  In the  **Header** text box, type **This document is protected to use only in Adatum Corp**.
16.  In the  **Configure conditions for automatically applying this label** section, click **Add a new condition**.
17.  In the  **Condition** window, click **Custom**. Type  **Internal doc** for the name and type **Adatum-Internal** in the **Match exact phrase or pattern** text box.
18.  Click  **Save** and then click **OK**.
19.  In the  **Label** window, below the **Conditions** section, click **Automatic**.
20.  In the  **Label** window, click **Save**, and then click  **OK**.
21.  Click  **Policies**.
22.  Click  **Globalpolicy**.
23.  Click  **Add or remove labels**.
24.  Select  **Adatum Documents Protection**, click  **OK**, click  **Save**, and then click  **OK**.
25.  In the  **Policy:** **Global** window, click **On** for **All documents and emails must have label**.
26.  Click  **Save**, and then click  **OK**.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have enabled and configured Microsoft Azure Rights Management (Azure RMS).


## Exercise 2: Integrating Azure Information Protection with FCI
  
#### Task 1: Install the RMS connector
  
1.  If needed, sign in to  **LON-SVR2** as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.  Open Internet Explorer from the taskbar and navigate to [https://aka.ms/AA31z7m](https://aka.ms/AA31z7m). 
3.  On the  **Microsoft Rights Management connector** page, click **Download**.
4.  On the  **Choose the download you want** page, select all items, and then click **Next**.
5.  Click  **Allow once** to allow a popup window for the download. If needed add download.microsoft.com to the Trusted Sites zone in the Internet Explorer.
6.  Save all three files to the  **Downloads** folder.
7.  Open File Explorer, navigate to  **Downloads**, and then double-click  **RMSConnectorSetup.exe**.
8.  In the  **Open File - Security Warning** window, click **Run**.
9.  In the  **Microsoft Rights Management connector setup** window, on the **Welcome to Microsoft Rights Management connector setup** page, click **Next**.
10.  On the  **End-User License Agreement** page, select the **I accept the terms in the License Agreement** check box, and then click **Next**.
11.  On the  **Microsoft RMS administrator credentials** page, type **msnider\@adatumyyxxxx.onmicrosoft.com** for the user name, type your password, and then click **Next**.
12.  On the  **Ready to install Microsoft Rights Management connector** page, click **Install**.
13.  On the  **Installation of Microsoft Rights Management connector completed** page, clear the **Launch connector administration console to authorize servers** check box, and then click **Finish**.
14.  In the  **File Explorer** window, in the **Downloads** folder, right-click the **GenConnectorConfig.ps1** file, and then click **Copy**.
15.  In the File Explorer address bar, type  **\\\\LON-SVR1\\C$**, and then press Enter.
16.  Right-click the empty space in the window, and then click  **Paste**.
17.  Close the Internet Explorer window on  **LON-SVR2**.


#### Task 2: Configure integration with Windows Server FCI
  
1.  On  **LON-SVR2**, on the desktop, double-click the  **Microsoft RMS connector administration tool** shortcut on the desktop.
2.  In the  **Microsoft Rights Management connector administration tool** window, in the **Username** text box, type **msnider\@adatumyyxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**. In the  **Password** text box, type your password, and then click **Sign In**.
3.  On the  **Servers allowed to utilize the connector** page, click **Add**.
4.  In the  **Allow a server to utilize the connector** window, click the **Role** drop-down list box, and then click **FCI Server**.
5.  Next to the  **Account or group** designation, click **Browse**.
6.  In the  **Select User, Computer, Service Account, or Group** window, type **LON-SVR1**, and then click  **Check Names**.
7.  After the server name resolves (it will be underlined), click  **OK**.
8.  In the  **Allow a server to utilize** **the** **connector** window, click **OK**.
9.  In the  **Microsoft Rights Management connector administration tool** window, click **Close**.


#### Task 3: Configure the FCI server for Azure RMS
  
1.  If needed, sign in to  **LON-SVR1** as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.  Click  **Start**, and then click the  **Windows PowerShell** icon.
3.  At the Windows PowerShell command-line prompt, navigate to  **C:\\**. Run the  **.\\GenConnectorConfig.ps1 -ConnectorUri http://lon-svr2.adatum.com -SetFCI2012** command.
4.  Type  **R** if prompted, and then press Enter.


#### Task 4: Configure the Azure RMS file management task
  
1.  On  **LON-SVR1**, open File Explorer.
2.  Browse to  **Local Disk (C:)**.
3.  Make a new folder on drive  **C**, and name it  **Confidential**.
4.  Right-click the folder, click  **Share with**, and then click  **Specific people**.
5.  In the  **File Sharing** window, type **Everyone**, click  **Add**, set  **permission level** **for Everyone** to **Read/Write**, click  **Share**, and then click  **Done**.
6.  Click  **Start**, and then open  **Server Manager**.
7.  In  **Server Manager**, click  **Tools**, and then click  **File Server Resource Manager**.
8.  In  **File Server Resource Manager**, select and right-click  **File Management Tasks**, and then click  **Create File Management Task**.
9.  In the  **Create File Management Task** window, in the **Task name** text box, type **RMS task**.
10.  Click the  **Scope** tab.
11.  On the  **Scope** tab, select the following check boxes, and then click **Add**:

  -  **Application Files**
  -  **Backup and Archival Files**
  -  **Group Files**
  -  **User Files**

12.  In the  **Browse For Folder** window, browse to **C:\\Confidential**, and then click  **OK**.
13.  Click the  **Action** tab.
14.  On the  **Action** tab, click the **Type** drop-down list box, and then click **RMS Encryption**.
15.  In the  **Select atemplate** list, click **Confidential\All Employees**.
16.  Click the  **Schedule** tab.
17.  On the  **Schedule** tab, select the **Saturday** check box, click **Run continuously on new files**, and then click  **OK** to create the file management task.
18.  Switch to  **LON-CL2**. Sign out and then sign in as  **Adam\@yourdomain.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
19.  On the  **Your organization requires Windows Hello** page, click **Set up PIN**. Close the  **Help us protect your account** window, and then click **Skip for now**.
20.  Click  **Start** and run Microsoft Word 2016. If Microsoft Office Activation wizard dialog box displays, click **Close.**
21.  In Word 2016, in the  **First things first** window, select **Ask me later**, and then click  **Accept**.
22.  Click  **Blank document**.
23.  Type some text in the document.
24.  Save the document to the  **\\\\LON-SVR1\\Confidential** folder. Name it **Secret.docx**.
25.  Close Word. Switch back to  **LON-SVR1**.
26.  In  **File Server Resource Manager** on **LON-SVR1**, right-click  **RMS task**, and then click  **Run File Management Task Now**.
27.  In the  **Run File Management Task** window, click the **Wait for the task to be complete (this can take hours or days)** option, and then click **OK**.
28.  When the task completes, review the report, and then close it.
29.  Switch to  **LON-CL2**. 
30.  Open File Explorer and navigate to  **\\\\LON-SVR1\\Confidential**.
31.  Double-click  **Secret.docx**, and verify that it has been protected with the  **Rights Management**. You will see a message stating that you do not have permission to open this document. This is because you are not signed in to the Word application. If time permits, you can choose to change credentials, and sign in to Word as  **Adam\@yourdomain.hostdomain.com** to verify that the **Confidential\\All Employees** template is applied.
32.  Close Word.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have integrated Azure RMS with File Classification Infrastructure (FCI).


## Exercise 3: Using the Azure Information Protection client application on a client
  
#### Task 1: Install the Azure Information Protection client on the client machine
  
1.  On the  **LON-CL2** computer, open Microsoft Edge.
2.  In the Microsoft Edge address bar, type [https://aka.ms/AA31rhh](https://aka.ms/AA31rhh), and then press Enter. 
3.  On the  **Download Center** page, click **Download**.
4.  On the  **Choose the download you want** page, select **AzInfoProtection.exe**, and then click  **Next**.
5.  On the  **Thank you for downloading** page, at the prompt that appears on the bottom of the page, click **Save as**.
6.  On the left-side menu, click the  **Downloads** folder, and then click **Save**.
7.  On the taskbar, click the  **File Explorer** icon.
8.  In File Explorer, navigate to the  **Downloads** folder.
9.  Double-click the  **AzInfoProtection** file.
10.  In the  **Install the Azure Information Protection client** window, click **I agree**. If prompted, sign in as  **LON-CL2\\Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
11.  Ensure that you have the status  **Completed Successfully** at the end of installation.
12.  Click  **Close**.
13.  Restart the computer and then sign in again as  **Adam\@_yourdomain_._hostdomain_.com**. On the  **Set up a PIN** page, click **Set up PIN**. Close the  **Help us protect your account** window, and then click **Skip for now**.


#### Task 2: Protect the document with the Azure Information Protection client application
  
1.  On  **LON-CL2**, open Microsoft Word 2016 and create a blank document.
2.  Type  **Adatum-Internal** in the first line of the document, and then type any text in the rest of the document.
3.  Save the document in any folder on  **LON-CL2**.
4.  Ensure that the document is automatically protected with the  **Adatum Documents protection** label. You will notice this is in the title bar. Close Word.
5.  Close and reopen Word 2016.
6.  Create a blank document and type any text. Note: Do not type  **Adatum-Internal**.
7.  Try to save the document. Notice the prompt to select the label. 
8.  Click  **Public** in the **Microsoft Azure Information Protection** window, and then click **OK**. Save the document.
9.  Ensure that the  **Public** label is applied. You can view this in the title bar.
10.  Close Word.
11.  On  **LON-CL2**, open File Explorer, create the  **C:\\temp** folder, right-click the empty space, click **New**, and then click  **Text Document**.
12.  Name the new document  **Doc1**. 
13.  Open  **Doc1**, and type some text. Save the document, and then close it.
14.  Right-click the document, and then click  **Classify and protect**.
15.  In the  **Classify and protect - Azure Information Protection** window, click **Adatum Documents Protection**, and then click  **Apply**. Click  **Close**.
16.  After the protecting window closes, ensure that the file extension has changed to  **.ptxt**.
17.  Double-click  **Doc1**. Verify that it now opens in the Azure Information Protection Viewer and not in Notepad.
18.  Close the file.


#### Task 3: Track document use configuration
  
1.  Double-click the  **Doc1.ptxt** file. Click **Track and Revoke**.
2.  In Microsoft Edge, on the  **Microsoft Azure Information Protection** page, click **Sign in**.
3.  Sign in as  **Adam\@_yourdomain_._hostdomain_.com**. If prompted, set up an alternative authentication option to your mobile phone, as you did in the previous labs.
4.  On the  **Doc1.txt** page, click **Settings**.
5.  On the  **Email notifications** page, click **Notify me by email when someone tries to open this document**.
6.  Review other options and then close the Microsoft Edge browser.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module

  - Leave all virtual machines running.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured the Azure Information Protection client application for client usage.



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
