# Module 5: Deploying Azure Information Protection with on-premises services
# Lab: Implementing Azure Information Protection
  
### Scenario
  You are working as an administrator at Adatum Corporation. You want to classify and protect documents that have a certain confidentiality level. You decide to use Azure RMS to achieve this result.


### Objectives
  After completing this lab, you should be able to:

- Enable and configure Azure RMS.
- Integrate Azure RMS with FCI.
- Use the RMS sharing application on a client.

### Lab setup
  Estimated time: 90 minutes

Virtual machines: 

-  **10993B** **-LON-DC1**
-  **10993B** **-LON-DS1**
-  **10993B** **-LON-WAP1**
-  **10993B** **-LON-S** **VR** **1**
-  **10993B** **-LON-S** **VR** **2**
-  **10993B** **-LON-CL2**

User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

- When you see references to  _Adatumyyxxxx_.**onmicrosoft.com**, replace  _Adatumyyxxxx_ with the unique domain name that you chose when you created a custom domain in the "Activating Azure and Office 365 trial subscriptions" exercise of the lab in Module 1, "Introducing Azure AD."
- Replace all instances of  _yourdomain_ with your unique domain name that appears on the online lab portal.
- Replace all instances of  _hostdomain_.**com** with the complete domain name of your lab hosting provider.
- When you see references to the account associated with your Azure trial subscription, you should use the account that you created in Exercise 1, "Activating Azure and Office 365 trial subscriptions," of the lab in Module 1, "Introducing Azure AD." 

To complete this lab successfully, you must have completed all lab tasks in Module 4.


## Exercise 1: Enabling and configuring Azure Information Protection
  
### Scenario
  Before you start protecting your document with Azure RMS, you must activate the Azure RMS service and configure templates.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Activate Azure Information Protection
2.  Configure Azure Information Protection labels


#### Task 1: Activate Azure Information Protection
  
1.  Open the Office 365 admin portal on  **LON-DS1**.
2.  Activate the Enterprise Mobility + Security E5 license for users Abbie Parsons and Adam Hobbs.
3.  Open the Azure portal on  **LON-DC1**.
4.  Add Azure Information Protection to the toolbar.
5.  Ensure that the Azure Information Protection service is activated.


#### Task 2: Configure Azure Information Protection labels
  
1.  In the Azure portal, navigate to Azure Information Protection.
2.  Open the properties window for the Global Policy.
3.  Add a new label and name it  **Adatum Documents Protection**. Provide a description and a color of your choice.
4.  Configure a new label to use protection so that all members from Adatum have the  **Viewer** right only.
5.  Configure automatic protection with a condition that detects the phrase  **Adatum-Internal** in the document.
6.  Use this label to configure a header for protected documents that reads:  **This document is protected to use only in Adatum Corp**.
7.  Add the label to the Global Policy.
8.  Configure Global Policy so that every document and email must have a label.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have enabled and configured Microsoft Azure Rights Management (Azure RMS).


## Exercise 2: Integrating Azure Information Protection with FCI
  
### Scenario
  You need to protect documents on your file server with appropriate Azure Information Protection labels. After you save documents on your file server in the appropriate folder, you must ensure that the  **A. Datum - Confidential** **View Only** template applies automatically to all documents in that folder.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Install the RMS connector
2.  Configure integration with Windows Server FCI
3.  Configure the FCI server for Azure RMS
4.  Configure the Azure RMS file management task


#### Task 1: Install the RMS connector
  
1.  Sign in to  **LON-SVR2** as **Adatum\\Administrator**.
2.  Open Internet Explorer and navigate to [https://aka.ms/AA31z7m](https://aka.ms/AA31z7m). 
3.  Download the Rights Management connector.
4.  Install the Rights Management connector on the computer.
5.  During the installation, authenticate by using the following credentials:

  - Username:  **msnider\@adatumyyxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**
  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd!**

6.  Do not launch the RMS connector administration console upon completion.
7.  Copy the  **GenConnectorConfig.ps1** file to **\\\\LON-SVR1\\C$**.


#### Task 2: Configure integration with Windows Server FCI
  
1.  On  **LON-SVR2**, double-click the  **Microsoft RMS connector administration tool** shortcut on the desktop.
2.  Sign in as  **msnider@adatumyyxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**.
3.  Add an FCI server ( **LON-SVR1**) to the allowed servers list.
4.  Click  **Close**.


#### Task 3: Configure the FCI server for Azure RMS
  
1.  Sign in to  **LON-SVR1** as **Adatum\\Administrator**.
2.  Open Windows PowerShell.
3.  At the Windows PowerShell prompt, navigate to  **C:\\**. Then run the  **.\\GenConnectorConfig.ps1 -ConnectorUri http://lon-svr2.adatum.com -SetFCI2012** command.


#### Task 4: Configure the Azure RMS file management task
  
1.  On  **LON-SVR1**, make a new folder on drive  **C**. Name it  **Confidential**. Share the folder with  **Everyone** with the **Read/Write** permission.
2.  On  **LON-SVR1**, in  **Server** **Manager**, open  **File Server Resource Manager**.
3.  Create a new file management task named  **RMS task**.
4.  On the  **Scope** tab, select all the check boxes for the different file types, and then click **Add**.
5.  Browse to  **C:\\Confidential**, and then click  **OK**.
6.  On the  **Action** tab, click the **Type** drop-down list box, and then click **RMS Encryption**.
7.  Click the  **Confidential\\All Employees** template.
8.  On the  **Schedule** tab, select the **Saturday** check box, select the **Run continuously on new files** option, and then click **OK**.
9.  Switch to  **LON-CL2**, and then sign in as  **Adam@yourdomain.hostdomain.com**.
10.  Open Word 2016, type some text in a blank document, and then save it as  **Secret.docx** in the **\\\\LON-SVR1\\Confidential** folder.
11.  On  **LON-SVR1**, run the  **RMS task**, and wait for it to complete.
12.  Switch to  **LON-CL2**.
13.  Navigate to  **\\\\lon-svr1\\** **Confidential**.
14.  Open the  **Secret.docx** file and verify that it has been protected with the **Confidential\\All Employees** template.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have integrated Azure RMS with File Classification Infrastructure (FCI).


## Exercise 3: Using the Azure Information Protection client application on a client
  
### Scenario
  You want to allow users to use RMS protection on their computers and to track the use of the documents that they protect.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Install the Azure Information Protection client on the client machine
2.  Protect the document with the Azure Information Protection client application
3.  Track document use configuration
4.  Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: Install the Azure Information Protection client on the client machine
  
1.  On the  **LON-CL2** computer, use Microsoft Edge to open [https://aka.ms/AA31rhh](https://aka.ms/AA31rhh).
2.  Download  **AzInfoProtection.exe**. Save the file to the  **Downloads** folder.
3.  In File Explorer, browse to the  **Downloads** folder, and then run the **AzInfoProtection.exe** file.
4.  Install the Azure Information Protection client application.
5.  After the application installs, restart the computer if prompted and then sign in again as  **Adam\@_yourdomain_. _hostdomain_.com**.


#### Task 2: Protect the document with the Azure Information Protection client application
  
1.  Open Word 2016. Create a blank document and type  **Adatum-Internal** in the document body.
2.  Save the document and ensure that the  **Adatum Documents protection** label is automatically applied.
3.  Create a new document in Word 2016. Type any text except  **Adatum-Internal**. Try to save the document.
4.  Ensure that you will be prompted to select a label. Select the  **Public** label.
5.  Create a new text document in the  **C:\\temp** folder.
6.  Add some text, save it, and then close it.
7.  Use the Azure Information Protection client to classify and protect the document by using the  **Adatum Documents Protection** template.
8.  Ensure that the file has changed the extension to  **.ptxt** after protection is applied.


#### Task 3: Track document use configuration
  
1.  Open the track usage page for the  **Doc1.ptxt** document.
2.  Configure notification for each time someone tries to open this document.
3.  Review options available for usage tracking.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  - Leave all virtual machines running.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured the Azure Information Protection client application for client usage.



## 
  
### Review question(s)
  

**Question** 
When configuring Azure RMS integration for Windows Server FCI, Exchange, or SharePoint, why do you need to use Windows PowerShell as part of the process?

**Question** 
What application should you use to protect JPEG files with RMS?



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
