# Module 3: Using Azure AD as a directory service in hybrid environments
# Lab: Using Azure AD in hybrid environments
  
### Scenario
  You are working as an administrator at Adatum Corporation. You are evaluating Azure AD as an extension to your on-premises AD DS environment. You want to configure SSO between the local AD DS and Azure AD so that your local AD DS infrastructure provides authentication for both local and cloud-based resources. For better management of privileged accounts in Azure AD, you decide to implement Azure AD PIM. Additionally, you are considering joining a few Windows 10 computers to Azure AD.


### Objectives

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Join a Windows 10 computer to Azure AD.
- Implement SSO with Azure AD.
- Configure and use Azure AD PIM.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  Estimated time: 75 minutes

Virtual machines:  **10993B-LON-DC1**,  **10993B-LON-DS1**,  **10993B-LON-CL2**

For  **LON-CL2**, use:

- User Name:  **Admin**
- Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

For  **LON-DC1** and **LON-DS1** use:

- User Name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**
- Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

In all tasks:

- When you see references to  **_Adatumyyxxxx_.onmicrosoft.com**, replace  **_Adatumyyxxxx_** with the unique domain name that you chose when you created a custom domain in the lab in Module 1, "Introducing Azure AD."
- Replace all instances of  **_yourdomain_** with your unique domain name that appears on the online lab portal.
- Replace all instances of  **_hostdomain.com_** with the complete domain name of your lab hosting provider.
- When you see references to the account associated with your Azure AD trial tenant or subscription, you should use the organizational account that you created in the lab in Module 1, "Introducing Azure AD."
- To complete this lab successfully, you need to complete all lab tasks in Module 2, "Integrating on-premises Active Directory with Azure."


## Exercise 1: Joining a Windows 10 computer to Azure AD
  
### Scenario
  You are considering using Azure AD-based tools to manage some field workers' computers. You need to evaluate the process and benefits of joining computers to Azure AD.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Configure the device-joining capability in Azure AD
2.  Join a Windows 10 computer to Azure AD
3.  Review the effects of joining a computer to Azure AD


#### Task 1: Configure the device-joining capability in Azure AD
  
1.  On  **LON-CL2**, sign in to the Azure portal with the administrator account that is associated with your Azure trial subscription.
2.  Open the Adatum Azure AD directory tenant.
3.  Configure the following options for  **Devices**:

  - Users may join devices to azure ad:  **ALL**
  - Additional administrators on Azure AD joined devices:  **Abbi Skinner**
  - Maximum number of devices per user:  **5**
  - Users may sync settings and app data across devices:  **ALL**


#### Task 2: Join a Windows 10 computer to Azure AD
  
1.  Sign in as the local administrator on  **LON-CL2**.
2.  In the  **Settings** window, use the SYSTEM/About pane to join **LON-CL2** to **Azure AD**.
3.  Use the following credentials to join the computer to  **Azure AD**:

  - User name:  **Annie\@_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com**
  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

4.  Restart  **LON-CL2**.
5.  Sign in as  **Annie\@_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com** to **LON-CL2**.
6.  Skip the procedure to create a PIN.


#### Task 3: Review the effects of joining a computer to Azure AD
  
1.  Open the  **Certificates** console on **LON-CL2**, select  **Computer account**, and then ensure that you see the certificate that  **MS-Organization-Access** issued.
2.  In Microsoft Edge, browse to  **https://portal.azure.com**, and then sign in with your administrative credentials.
3.  Open the  **Annie Conner** user object in **Azure AD**.
4.  Check the  **DEVICES** and ensure that **LON-CL2** is listed.
5.  Open  **Settings**\ **Accounts**\ **Your email and accounts**, and then click  **Manage my account**.
6.  Ensure that Azure opens and that you are directed to the  **Microsoft Azure** page to manage your account.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have successfully joined computers to Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD).


## Exercise 2: Implementing SSO with Azure AD
  
### Scenario
  After configuring directory synchronization between your local AD DS and Azure AD, you now want to centralize authentication for synchronized accounts. This will allow a user to use a single set of credentials when accessing both local and cloud resources. It will also mean that your local AD DS provides authentication.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Configure required Domain Name System (DNS) records
2.  Install and configure AD FS
3.  Install and configure Web Application Proxy
4.  Configure the domain for single sign-on (SSO)
5.  Test SSO
6.  Enable SSO for apps in the Azure gallery


#### Task 1: Configure required Domain Name System (DNS) records
  
1.  On  **LON-DS1**, open the Windows PowerShell command-line interface, and then run  **IPConfig**. Record the server IP address.
2.  On  **LON-DC1**, open  **DNS Manager**.
3.  In the  **_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com** zone, create a host record with a blank name by using the external IP address that the hosting partner provided.
4.  Create another host resource record with a blank name by using the IP address for  **LON-DS1** that you recorded in step 1.


#### Task 2: Install and configure AD FS
  
1.  Sign in to the  **LON-DS1** VM as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.  Run the following command to create the Key Distribution Services root key to generate gMSA passwords for the account that this lab will use later:

  ```
  Add-KdsRootKey -EffectiveTime ((get-date).addhours(-10))
  ```

3.  Use  **Server Manager** to access the **Add Roles and Features Wizard** for installing the Active Directory Federation Services server role.
4.  After installation, in the  **Active Directory Federation Services Configuration Wizard**, configure the following settings:

  - For the  **SSL Certificate**, use the wildcard certificate that the hosting provider supplied.
  - For the  **Federation Service Name**, type  **_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com**, replacing  **yourdomain** with your unique domain name.
  - For the  **Federation Service Display Name**, type  **AdatumCorporation**.
  - Create a gMSA named  **svc-ADFS**.
  - Use  **Windows Internal Database** as the configuration database.

5.  Finish the configuration.
6.  Restart  **LON-DS1** and then sign in as Adatum\\Administrator.


#### Task 3: Install and configure Web Application Proxy
  
1.  Sign in to the  **LON-WAP1** VM as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.  Use  **Server Manager** to access the **Add Roles and Features Wizard** for installing the **Web Application Proxy** role service from the Remote Access server role.
3.  Use Notepad to open the hosts file on  **LON-WAP1** located at **C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc**. At the end of the text in hosts file, start a new line and add the following text:   **10.0.0.11** **_yourdomain_** **.hostdomain.com**
4.  On  **LON-WAP1**, use  **Remote Access Management** to open the **Web Application Proxy Configuration Wizard**.
5.  In the  **Web Application Proxy Configuration Wizard**, on the  **Welcome** page, click **Next**.
6.  On the  **Federation Server** page, use the following settings:

  - Federation service name:  **_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com**, replacing  _yourdomain_ with your unique domain name
  - User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**
  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

7.  Use the wildcard certificate that the hosting partner provided.
8.  Switch to the  **LON-DS1** VM.
9.  Verify that  **Event ID100** displays in **Event Viewer**.
10.  Switch to the  **LON-DC1** VM.
11.  In Internet Explorer, open the following URL, replacing  **yourdomain** with your unique domain name, to verify that the federation service is available: **https://_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com/adfs/fs/federationserverservice.asmx**.

>  **Note:** The expected output is a display of XML with the service description document. If this page displays, then IIS on the federation server is operational and serving pages successfully.


#### Task 4: Configure the domain for single sign-on (SSO)
- On  **LON-DS1**, run the following cmdlets in Windows PowerShell:

```
Set-ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted -force
$msolcred = Get-Credential
Connect-MsolService -Credential $msolcred
Get-MsolDomain
Convert-MsolDomainToFederated -DomainName yourdomain.hostdomain.com
Get-MsolFederationProperty -DomainName yourdomain.hostdomain.com
```


#### Task 5: Test SSO
  
1.  Open a web browser on your local computer, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.
2.  Sign in with the following credentials:

  - User name:  **Annie\@_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com**
  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

3.  Verify that you redirect to the  **Adatum Corporation** sign-in page.
4.  Review the  **Office 365** page for **Annie**, and then close the web browser.


#### Task 6: Enable SSO for apps in the Azure gallery
  
1.  On  **LON-CL2**, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.azure.com**.
2.  On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, click **SIGN OUT**, and then click  **SIGN IN**.
3.  On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, sign in with the administrator account that is associated with your Azure trial tenant subscription.
4.  In the  **Adatum** directory, create the Skype application from the gallery:
5.  Verify that  **Configure single sign-on** is enabled by default.
6.  Assign Skype application to the user  **Abbi Skinner**.
7.  Do not enter the Microsoft account credentials on behalf of the user.
8.  Open the  **NewInPrivatewindow** in Microsoft Edge and browse to **https://myapps.microsoft.com**.
9.  Sign in as  **Abbi\@_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com**.
10.  Ensure that you see the Skype app in the user profile.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, students will have successfully configured single sign-on (SSO) with Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS).


## Exercise 3: Configuring and using Azure AD PIM
  
### Scenario
To protect accounts with higher privileges in Azure AD, you decide to implement Azure AD PIM. You want to reduce the number of people with permanent administration roles. You also want to be notified each time users activate certain privileged roles.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Enable Azure AD PIM
2.  Configure Azure AD PIM
3.  Use Azure AD PIM
4.  Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: Enable Azure AD PIM
  
1.  Sign in to the Azure portal with the  **msnider\@_adatumyyxxxx_.onmicrosoft.com** account.
2.  Activate the  **Azure ADPrivileged Identity Management** feature and consent to PIM usage. Provide additional verification by using your phone and text messaging.
3.  Create a service, and then pin it to the Azure portal dashboard.


#### Task 2: Configure Azure AD PIM
  
1.  Review users that have assigned global administrator and User Administrator roles by using Azure AD PIM.
2.  Configure Azure AD PIM to request an explanation and ticketing for User Administrator role activation.
3.  Configure Azure AD PIM to allow a maximum two-hour duration of role activation.
4.  Configure the User Administrator role activation to require approval from Miranda Snider.
5.  Set the threshold for the  **Roles are being activatedtoo frequently** setting to **7**.
6.  Set the value for the  **Administrators aren't using their privileged roles** alert to **21**.
7.  Ensure that  **Edmund Reeve** is a temporary User Administrator.


#### Task 3: Use Azure AD PIM
  
1.  Sign in to the Azure portal as  **Edmund Reeve**.
2.  Activate the User Administrator role.
3.  Use your mobile phone to prove identity.
4.  Sign in as  **Miranda Snider** to approve the request and to verify that role activation was recorded.
5.  Sign out as Miranda and sign in again as  **Edmund Reeve**.
6.  Ensure that the User Administrator role is now activated.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module

- Leave all virtual machines running.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have successfully configured Azure AD Privileged Identity Management (PIM).



### Review question(s)
 

**Question** 
What was the purpose of the  **Convert-MsolDomainToFederated** cmdlet that you executed in the lab?
This cmdlet converts the domain that was configured in Azure AD to a federated domain. By doing this, you configure Azure AD to redirect authentication requests to your local AD FS and AD DS.

**Question** 
What is the purpose of the Web Application Proxy component when configuring SSO?
Authentication requests from Azure AD that come to your local AD DS proxy through Web Application Proxy to AD FS.



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
