# Lab Answer Key:  Module 2: Integrating on-premises Active Directory with Azure
# Lab: Implementing directory synchronization
  
## Exercise 1: Implementing Azure AD Connect
  
#### Task 1: Configure a UPN and sync account
  
1.  If necessary, sign in to the  **LON-DC1** virtual machine as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.  On the Start screen, click  **WindowsAdministrative Tools**, and then double-click  **Active Directory Domains and Trusts**.
3.  In the  **Active Directory Domains and Trusts** window, right-click **Active Directory Domains and Trusts**, and then click  **Properties**.
4.  Select the  **UPN Suffixes** tab, in the **Alternative UPN suffixes:** text box, type **yourdomain.hostdomain.com**, and then click  **Add**. Click  **OK**.
5.  Right click Start and then click  **Windows PowerShell(Admin)**.
6.  At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-ADUser -Filter * -Properties SamAccountName | foreach { Set-ADUser $_ -UserPrincipalName ($_.SamAccountName + "\@yourdomain.hostdomain.com" )}
  ```

7.  Wait until the command completes, and then close the  **Windows PowerShell** window.
8.  Open Internet Explorer from the taskbar. In the address bar, type  **https://portal.azure.com**, and then press Enter.
9.  On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, sign in with your Azure tenant credentials that you created in Module 1's lab, and then click **Sign in**.
10.  On the Azure portal, click  **Azure Active Directory**, click  **Users** in the middle pane, click **All users**, and then click  **New user**.
11.  In the  **User** dialog box, enter the following:

  - Name:  **Sync User**
  - User Name: sync\@adatumyyxxxx.onmicrosoft.com
  - Click  **Directory role**, select  **Global administrator**, and then click  **Ok**.

12.  Click  **Show Password**, note and write down the value for  **Password**, and then click  **Create**.
13.  At the upper right of the page, click your account name, and then click  **Sign out**.
14.  Close the Microsoft Edge browser, reopen it, and then browse to  **https://portal.azure.com**.
15.  On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, click **Use another account** if needed, type **sync\@_Adatumyyxxxxx_.onmicrosoft.com** for the user name, type the temporary password that you noted above, and then click **Sign in**.
16.  On the  **Update your password** page, in the **Current password** text box, type the temporary password, in the **New password** and **Confirm password** text boxes, type _your password_ and then click **Sign in**.
17.  If the  **Welcome to Microsoft** Azure window appears, click **Maybe later**. Click your  **Sync user** account in the upper right of the page, and then select **Sign out**. Leave Internet Explorer open.
18.  On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, sign in to Azure by using the Microsoft account associated with your trial subscription. The account should be on the list.
19.  In the Azure portal, click  **Azure Active Directory**. 
20.  Click  **Custom domain names**.
21.  Ensure that you see your custom domain in the list, and that the domain has  **Verified** status.
22.  Click your domain and then click  **Make primary**.
23.  In the popup window, click  **Yes**.
24.  Close the domain window.
25.  Leave the Internet Explorer window open.



#### Task 2: Install and configure Azure AD Connect
  
1.  On  **LON-DS1**, if necessary, sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator**, with the password  **Pa55w.rd**. If the  **Network** pane appears, click **Yes**.
2.  Open Internet Explorer, and then go to  **http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=47594**.
3.  On the  **Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect** page, click **Download**, and then click  **Run**. 

  >  **Note:** If you experience any problems with launching the download, add the **https://download.microsoft.com** website to your Trusted sites.

4.  In the  **Microsoft Azure Active Directory ConnectWizard**, on the  **Welcome to Azure AD Connect** page, select the **I agree to the license terms and privacy notice** check box, and then click **Continue**.
5.  On the  **Express Settings** page, click **Customize**.
6.  On the  **Install required components** page, click **Install**.
7.  On the  **User sign-in** page, ensure that **Password Hash Synchronization** is selected, and then click **Next**.
8.  On the  **Connect to Azure AD** page, in the **USERNAME** and **PASSWORD** boxes, enter the SYNC account user name (it will be in the following format: sync@adatumyyxxxx.onmicrosoft.com) and _your password_, and then click  **Next**.
9.  On the  **Connect your directories** page, ensure that Adatum.com is listed under **FOREST**, and then click  **Add Directory**.
10.  In the  **AD forest account** window, select the **Create new AD account** option, and in the **ENTERPRISE ADMIN USERNAME** field, type **Adatum\\Administrator**, and then type  **Pa55w.rd** in the **PASSWORD** field. Click **OK**, and then click  **Next**.
11.  On the  **Azure AD sign-in configuration** page, ensure that your custom domain is listed as **Verified**. Ensure that in the  **USER PRINCIPAL NAME** drop-down list, the **userPrincipalName** value is selected. Select **Continue without matching all UPN suffixes to verified domains** and then click **Next**.
12.  On the  **Domain and OU filtering** page, click **Sync selected domains and OUs**.
13.  Expand  **Adatum.com**, clear the  **Adatum.com** check box, and then ensure that the only the following check boxes are selected: **Computers**,  **IT**,  **Managers**,  **Marketing**,  **Research**, and  **Sales**. Clear the other check boxes, and then click  **Next**.
14.  On the  **Uniquely identifying your users** page, click **Next**.
15.  On the  **Filter users and devices** page, click **Next**.
16.  On the  **Optional features** page, review available options, but do not make any changes. Ensure that **Password hash synchronization** is selected, and then click **Next**.
17.  On the  **Ready to configure** page, ensure that **Start the synchronization process when configuration completes** is selected, and then click **Install**.
18.  When configuration is complete, click  **Exit**.
19.  Synchronization of objects from your local Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) and Azure AD begins. You must wait approximately 10 minutes for this process to complete. Close the Internet Explorer window on  **LON-DS1**.


#### Task 3: Verify synchronization
  
1.  On  **LON-DS1**, open Internet Explorer, and go to  **https://portal.azure.com**.
2.  Sign in with the account that is associated with your Azure AD trial subscription. If  **Stay Signed in?** page appears, click **Yes.**
3.  In the Azure portal, click  **Azure Active Directory**.
4.  Click  **Users**, and then click  **All Users**.
5.  Verify that you see users from your local AD DS. Ensure that these users have the value  **Windows Server AD** in the **SOURCE** column. Close the **Users** window.
6.  Click  **Groups**. Verify that you see groups from your local AD DS. 

  >  **Note:** It might take 10 to 15 minutes for groups to appear.

7.  Click the  **Managers** group.
8.  On the  **Managers** group page, ensure that you see users when you click **Members**. Also, verify that you cannot make any changes to this group, as it is sourced from the local Active Directory.
9.  Minimize the Internet Explorer browser window.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have implemented Azure AD Connect successfully.


## Exercise 2: Managing directory synchronization
  
#### Task 1: Configure synchronization filtering and scheduling
  
1.  On  **LON-DS1**, click  **Start**, and then click  **Synchronization Service**.
2.  In Synchronization Service Manager, click the  **Connectors** tab.
3.  On the  **Connectors** tab, double-click **Adatum.com**.
4.  In the  **Properties** dialog box, click **Configure Directory Partitions**.
5.  Click  **Containers**.
6.  In the  **Credentials** dialog box, enter the following credentials, and then click **OK**:

  - User name:  **Administrator**
  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**
  - Domain:  **Adatum.com**

  >  **Note:** While this account is not the one used for directory synchronization, you use the account credentials temporarily to access AD DS to configure filtering.

7.  In the  **Select Containers** dialog box, select the **Development** check box, and then click **OK**.
8.  To close the  **Properties** window, click **OK**.
9.  On  **LON-DS1**, open the Start screen, and then click  **Synchronization Rules Editor**. 
10.  In Synchronization Rules Editor, in  **Direction** list, select **Inbound**, and then click  **Add new rule**. 
11.  In the  **Create inbound synchronization rule** dialog box, in the **Name** text box, type **In from AD - User DoNotSyncFilter**.
12.  In the  **Connected System** drop-down list, select **Adatum.com**.
13.  In the  **Connected System Object Type** drop-down list, select **user**.
14.  In the  **Metaverse Object Type** drop-down list, select **person**.
15.  In the  **Link Type** drop-down list, select **Join**.
16.  In the  **Precedence** text box, type **50**.
17.  Click  **Next**.
18.  In the  **Create inbound synchronization rule** dialog box, on the **Scoping filter** tab, click **Add Group**, and then click  **Add Clause**.
19.  In the  **Add scoping filters** form:

  - In the  **Attribute** drop-down list, select **msDS-cloudExtensionAttribute15**.
  - In the  **Operator** drop-down list, select **EQUAL**.
  - In the  **Value** text box, type **NoSync**,

20.  Click  **Next**.
21.  On the  **Add join rules** page, click **Next**.
22.  On the  **Add transformations** page, click **Add transformation**.
23.  In the  **FlowType** drop-down list, select **Constant**.
24.  In the  **Target Attribute** drop-down list, select **cloudFiltered**.
25.  In the  **Source** text box, type **True**.
26.  To save the rule, click  **Add**, and then close the  **Synchronization Rules Editor** window.
27.  Open Windows PowerShell from the Start menu. In Windows PowerShell, type the following command, and then press Enter. 

  ```
  Start-ADSyncSyncCycle -PolicyType Initial
  ```

>  **Note:** The initial synchronization can take several minutes to complete. Leave the Windows PowerShell window open.


#### Task 2: Create a new user and a group account in AD DS
  
1.  On  **LON-DC1**, in  **Server Manager**, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Active Directory Users and Computers**.
2.  In the console tree, expand  **Adatum.com**, right-click  **Research**, click  **New**, and then click  **User**.
3.  In the  **First name** text box, type **Perry**.
4.  In the  **Lastname** text box, type **Brill**.
5.  In the  **User logon name** text box, type **Perry**, select your lab domain as  **UPN** (not **Adatum.com**), and then click  **Next**.
6.  In the  **Password** and **Confirmpassword** text boxes, type **Pa55w.rd**, ensure that the  **User must change password at next logon** check box is not selected, select the **Password never expires** check box, click **Next**, and then click  **Finish**.
7.  In the  **Research** organizational unit (OU) user list, double-click the **Perry Brill** user.
8.  In the  **Properties** dialog box, in the **E-mail** box, type **Perry@yourdomain.hostdomain**. **com**, and then click  **OK**.
9.  In the console tree, right-click the  **Research** OU, click **New**, and then click  **Group**.
10.  In the  **New Object - Group** window, in the **Group name:** text box, type **Project Team**, click  **Universal**, click  **Security**, and then click  **OK**.
11.  In the  **Research** OU, double-click the **Project Team** group.
12.  In the  **Properties** dialog window, in the **E-mail** box, type **projectteam\@yourdomain.hostdomain.com**.
13.  On the  **Members** tab, click **Add**.
14.  In the  **Select Users, Contacts, Computers, Service Accounts, or Groups** dialog box, in the **Enter the object names to select** text box, type the following names, and then click **Check Names**:

  -  **Arturs Priede**
  -  **Cai Chu**
  -  **Claire Roberson**

15.  Click  **OK** twice.


#### Task 3: Modifying directory synchronization options and moving users in and out of the sync scope
  
1.  On  **LON-DS1**, open the Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell from the desktop, and at the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Connect-MSolService
  ```

  > **Note**: If the Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell is still open from previous exercise, you can skip directly to step 3.

2.  When prompted, type the credentials of the  **SYNC** account.
3.  At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser -Search Vera
  ```

4.  Verify that the user  **Vera Pace** is listed.
5.  On  **LON-DC1**, in Active Directory Users and Computers, move  **Vera Pace** from the **Research** OU to the **Users** OU by right-clicking **Vera Pace** in the **Research** OU user list, clicking **Move**, and then selecting the  **Users** container. Click **OK**.
6.  On  **LON-DC1**, ensure that Active Directory Users and Computers is open.
7.  In the console tree, if necessary, expand  **Adatum**, and then click  **Marketing**.
8.  Right-click  **Ada Russell**, and then click  **Move**.
9.  In the  **Move** dialog box, expand **Adatum.com**, click  **Users**, and then click  **OK**.
10.  In the console tree of Active Directory Users and Computers, click  **Research**.
11.  In the right pane, double-click  **Research**.
12.  In the  **Research Properties** dialog box, click the **Members** tab.
13.  Select the following three users, and click  **Remove**, and then in the confirmation dialog box, click  **Yes**:

  -  **Camille Morrow**
  -  **Connie Vaughn**
  -  **Finlay Butcher**

14.  Click  **OK**.


#### Task 4: Force synchronization
  
1.  On  **LON-DS1**, open Windows PowerShell from the taskbar.
2.  At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  Start-ADSyncSyncCycle -PolicyType Delta
  ```

  >  **Note:** You use the **Delta** switch here to synchronize only the updates.

3.  Wait until synchronization has completed before proceeding to the next task. That should take four to five minutes.


#### Task 5: Verify that synchronization was successful
  
1.  On  **LON-DS1**, switch to the  **Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell** window, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolGroup
  ```

2.  Verify that you see the  **Research** and **Project Team** groups. Copy the **ObjectID** value for these two groups.
3.  To verify the group for which you updated the membership in AD DS, type the following command at the Windows PowerShell prompt, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolGroupMember -GroupObjectId <ObjectID for Research group>
  ```

4.  Verify that the membership of the group does not contain the users removed in AD DS. The users who were removed from the group are:

  -  **Camille Morrow**
  -  **Connie Vaughn**
  -  **Finlay Butcher**

5.  Repeat step 3, but use the  **ObjectID** for the **Project Team** group and verify its membership.
6.  To verify the user that you moved out of the scope of synchronization,  **Vera Pace**, type the following command at the Windows PowerShell prompt, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser -Search Vera
  ```

7.  Verify that you get no result.


#### Task 6: Prepare for the next module
  - Leave all virtual machines running

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured synchronization options.



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
