# Lab Answer Key:  Module 3: Using Azure AD as a directory service in hybrid environments
# Lab: Using Azure AD in hybrid environments
  
## Exercise 1: Joining a Windows 10 computer to Azure AD
  
#### Task 1: Configure the device-joining capability in Azure AD
  
1.  On  **LON-CL2**, sign in as  **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. If the Networks pane appears, click  **Yes**.
2.  Open the Microsoft Edge browser, and then browse to https://portal.azure.com.
3.  Sign in with the administrator account that is associated with your Azure trial subscription. Note: If Stay Signed in? page appears, click  **Yes**.
4.  On the Azure portal, click  **Azure Active Directory**.
5.  On the  **adatum** page, click **Devices**, and then click  **Device settings**.
6.  Ensure that the  **Users may join devices to Azure AD** option is set to **All**.
7.  For the  **Additional local administrators on Azure AD joined devices** option, click **Selected**, and then click  **No member selected**.
8.  Click  **Add members**, click  **Abbi Skinner**, click  **Select**, and then click  **OK**.
9.  For the  **Maximum number of devices per user** option, configure the value as **5**, and then click  **Save**.
10.  Click  **Enterprise State Roaming**.
11.  For the  **Users may sync settings and app data across devices** option, select the **All** value.
12.  Click  **Save** at the top of the page
13.  Close the Microsoft Edge browser window.


#### Task 2: Join a Windows 10 computer to Azure AD
  
1.  On  **LON-CL2**, ensure that you are signed in as the local administrator.
2.  Click the  **Start** menu, click **Settings**, and then click  **System**.
3.  In the  **System** window, in the navigation pane, click **About**, and then click  **Connect to work or school**.
4.  On the  **Connect to work or school** page, click **Connect**.
5.  On the  **Set up a work or school account** page, click **Join this device to Azure Active Directory**.
6.  On the  **Let's get you signed in** page, type **Annie\@_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com** for the username and click **Next**. Type  **Pa55w.rd** for the password, and then click **Sign in**.
7.  At the  **Make sure this is your organization** prompt, click **Join**, click  **Done**, and then close the  **Settings** window.
8.  Restart  **LON-CL2**.
9.  When the computer restarts, click  **Other user** on the sign-in screen.
10.  Sign in as  **Annie\@_yourdomain_.hostdomain**.com with the password  **Pa55w.rd**.
11.  On the  **Your organization requires Windows Hello** page, click **Set up PIN**.
12.  On the  **Help us protect your account** page, close the page.
13.  On the  **Something went wrong** page, click **Skip for now**.


#### Task 3: Review the effects of joining a computer to Azure AD
  
1.  On  **LON-CL2**, in the  **Ask me anything** text box on the taskbar, type **mmc**, and then press Enter.
2.  At the  **User Account Control** prompt, click **Yes**.
3.  In the  **Console1-[Console Root]** window, click **File**, and then click  **Add/Remove Snap-in**.
4.  In the  **Available snap-ins** list, click **Certificates**, and then click  **Add**. Click  **Computer account**, click  **Next**, click  **Finish**, and then click  **OK**.
5.  In the  **Console1-[Console Root]** window, expand **Certificates (Local Computer)**, expand  **Personal**, and then click  **Certificates**.
6.  Ensure that you see the certificate that  **MS-Organization-Access** issued. Close the **Console1** window and do not save changes.
7.  On the desktop, on the taskbar, start the Microsoft Edge browser, open  **NewInPrivate window**, and browse to  **https://portal.azure.com**.
8.  Sign in with the account that is associated with your Azure trial subscription. Note: If Stay Signed in? page appears, click  **Yes**.
9.  On the Azure portal, click  **Azure Active Directory**, click  **Users**, click  **All users**, click  **Annie Conner**, and then click  **Devices**. 
10.  Ensure that you see  **LON-CL2** listed and that the **JOIN TYPE** for this device is **Azure AD joined**.
11.  Close Microsoft Edge.
12.  Click the  **Start** menu, and then click **Settings**.
13.  In the  **Settings** window, click **Accounts**.
14.  In the  **Accounts** window, click **Email &amp; app accounts**, and in the  **details** pane, click **account** **Annie\@_yourdomain_._hostdomain_.com**, and then click  **Manage**.
15.  Ensure that Microsoft Edge opens and that you are directed to the  **Microsoft Azure** page to manage Annie's account.
16.  Close the Microsoft Edge browser

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have successfully joined computers to Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD).


## Exercise 2: Implementing SSO with Azure AD
  
#### Task 1: Configure required Domain Name System (DNS) records
  
1.  On  **LON-DS1**, on the taskbar, if not already opened, start  **Windows PowerShell**.
2.  Type  **IPConfig**, and then press Enter.
3.  Record the IPv4 address that is assigned to the server.
4.  On  **LON-DC1**, open  **Server Manager**, click  **Tools**, and then click  **DNS**.
5.  Expand  **LON-DC1**, expand  **Forward Lookup Zones**, and then expand the yourdomain.hostdomain.com zone.
6.  Click and then right-click  **_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com**, and then click  **New Host (A or AAAA)**.
7.  In the  **New Host** dialog box, leave the **Name** text box empty, and then in the **IP address** text box, type the External IP address that the hosting partner provided.
8.  Click  **Add Host**, and then click  **OK**.
9.  In the  **New Host** dialog box, leave the **Name** text box empty, and then in the **IP address** text box, type the **LON-DS1** IP address that you recorded in step 3.
10.  Click  **Add Host**, click  **OK**, and then click  **Done**.


#### Task 2: Install and configure AD FS
  
1.  Switch to  **LON-DS1**.
2.  If it is not already opened, in the  **Start** menu, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, and then click  **Run as administrator**.
3.  At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter. This command creates the Key Distribution Services root key to generate Group Managed Service Account (gMSA) passwords for the account that this lab will use later. You should receive a globally unique identifier (GUID) value as a response to this command:

  ```
  Add-KdsRootKey -EffectiveTime ((get-date).addhours(-10))
  ```

4.  On the  **Start** screen, click **Server Manager**.
5.  In  **Server Manager**, click  **Manage**, and then click  **Add Roles and Features**. If you receive a  **Server Manager** message about collecting inventory data, click **OK**. Wait a minute, and then try this step again.
6.  In the  **Add Roles and Features Wizard**, on the  **Before** **You** **Begin** page, click **Next**.
7.  On the  **Select installation type** page, click **Role-based or** **feature-based installation**, and then click  **Next**.
8.  On the  **Select destination server** page, click **Select a server from the server pool**, verify that the target computer is highlighted, and then click  **Next**.
9.  On the  **Select server roles** page, click **Active Directory Federation Services**, and then click  **Next**.
10.  On the  **Select features** page, click **Next**.
11.  On the  **Active Directory Federation Services** **(ADFS)** page, click **Next**.
12.  On the  **Confirm installation selections** page, click **Install**.
13.  When installation completes, on the  **Installation progress** page, click **Close**.
14.  Click the exclamation point ( **!**) icon on the toolbar, and then click  **Configure the federation service on this server**.
15.  In the  **Active Directory Federation Services Configuration Wizard**, on the  **Welcome** page, click **Create the first federation server in a federation server farm**, and then click  **Next**.
16.  On the  **Connect to AD DS** page, click **Next**.
17.  On the  **Specify Service Properties** page, use the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - For  **SSL Certificate**, click the wildcard certificate that the hosting partner provided.
  - For  **Federation Service Name**, type  **_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com**, replacing  **yourdomain** with your unique Adatum domain name.
  - For  **Federation Service Display Name**, type  **Adatum Corporation**.

18.  On the  **Specify Service Account** page, select the **Create a Group Managed Service Account** option, for **Account Name**, type  **svc-ADFS**, and then click  **Next**.
19.  On the  **Specify Configuration Database** page, click **Create a database on this server using Windows Internal Database**, and then click  **Next**.
20.  On the  **Review Options** page, click **Next**.
21.  After the prerequisites check is complete, on the  **Pre-requisite Checks** page, click **Configure**.
22.  When the configuration completes, on the  **Results** page, click **Close**.
23.  Restart  **LON-DS1**.
24.  When the computer restarts, sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.


#### Task 3: Install and configure Web Application Proxy
  
1.  Sign in to the  **LON-WAP1** virtual machine (VM) as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. If the Networks pane appears, click  **Yes**.
2.  On the  **Start** menu, click **Server Manager**.
3.  In  **Server Manager**, click  **Manage**, and then click  **Add Roles and Features**.
4.  In the  **Add Roles and Features Wizard**, on the  **Before You Begin** page, click **Next**.
5.  On the  **Select installation type** page, click **Role-based or** **feature-based installation**, and then click  **Next**.
6.  On the  **Select destination server** page, click **Select a server from the server pool**, verify that the target computer is highlighted, and then click  **Next**.
7.  On the  **Select server roles** page, click **Remote Access**, and then click  **Next**.
8.  On the  **Select features** page, click **Next**.
9.  On the  **Remote Access** page, click **Next**.
10.  On the  **Select role services** page, click **Web Application Proxy**, in the pop-up window, click  **Add Features**, and then click  **Next**.
11.  On the  **Confirm installation selections** page, click **Install**.
12.  When the installation is complete, on the  **Installation progress** page, click **Close**.
13.  On  **LON-WAP1**, click  **Start**, type  **Notepad**, right-click the  **Notepad** icon, and then select **Run as Administrator**.
14.  In the  **Notepad** window, click **File**, click  **Open**, and then browse to  **C:\\Windows\\System32\\drivers\\etc**. 
15.  In the drop-down list box, select  **All Files (*.*)**, click  **hosts**, and then click  **Open**.
16.  In the  **Notepad** window, at the end of the text, start a new line and add the following text:  **10.0.0.11** **_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com**.
17.  Save the changes and close Notepad.
18.  On  **LON-WAP1**, in  **Server Manager**, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Remote Access Management**.
19.  In the  **Remote Access Management** console, in the left navigation pane, click **Web Application Proxy**. In the middle navigation pane, click  **Run the Web Application Proxy Configuration Wizard**.
20.  In the  **Web Application Proxy Configuration Wizard**, on the  **Welcome** page, click **Next**.
21.  On the  **Federation Server** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - Federation service name:  **_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com**, replacing  **yourdomain** with your unique domain name
  - User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**
  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

22.  On the  **AD-FS Proxy Certificate** page, select the **\*.hostdomain.com** certificate, and then click **Next**.
23.  On the  **Confirmation** page, click **Configure**.
24.  When the configuration is complete, on the  **Results** page, click **Close**.
25.  Switch to the  **LON-DS1** VM.
26.  In  **Server Manager**, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Event Viewer**.
27.  In  **Event Viewer**, in the details pane, expand  **Applications and Services Logs**, expand  **AD FS**, and then click  **Admin**.
28.  In the  **Event ID** column, verify that event ID **100** displays.

  >  **Note:** If you have configured the federation server properly, you should see a new event with Event ID 100 in the Event Viewer Application log. This event verifies that the federation server proxy could communicate successfully with the Federation Service.

29.  On  **LON-DC1**, open Internet Explorer, connect to  **https://_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com/adfs/fs/federationserverservice.asmx**, replacing  **yourdomain** with your unique domain name, and then press Enter.
30.  If you receive a message stating "There is a problem with this website's security certificate," click  **Continue to this website**.

>  **Note:** The expected output is a display of XML with the service description document. If this page displays, then Microsoft Internet Information Services (IIS) on the federation server is operational and serving pages successfully.


#### Task 4: Configure the domain for single sign-on (SSO)
  
1.  Switch to the  **LON-DS1** VM. On the desktop, double-click the **Windows** **Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell** icon.
2.  At the Windows PowerShell command-line interface command prompt, type the following command:

  ```
  Set-ExecutionPolicy 
  Unrestricted -force
  ```

3.  At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  $msolcred = Get-Credential
  ```

4.  In the  **Windows PowerShell Credential** dialog box, enter the following credentials, and then click **OK**:

  - User name:  **msnider\@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**
  - Password:  _your password_

5.  At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Connect-MsolService -Credential $msolcred
  ```

6.  At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolDomain
  ```

7.  Verify that your lab domain,  **_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com**, is listed as  **Verified and Managed**.

  >  **Note:** If you run this from a computer other than the AD FS federation server, you will need to use the **Set-MsolAdfsContext** cmdlet to reference the AD FS server.

8.  At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Convert-MsolDomainToFederated -DomainName yourdomain.hostdomain.com
  ```

9.  Verify that you receive a "Successfully updated  _yourdomain_.hostdomain.com domain" message.
10.  At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolFederationProperty -DomainName yourdomain.hostdomain.com
  ```

>  **Note:** This command reports the status of the domain federation, and it provides details of URLs and certificates.


#### Task 5: Test SSO
  
1.  On your local computer, open a web browser.
2.  In the  **Address** bar, type **https://portal.office.com**, and then press Enter.
3.  On the  **Office365** page, type **Annie\@_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com** for the user name, and then click **Next**.
4.  Verify that you redirect to the  **Adatum Corporation** sign-in page.
5.  Sign in with the password  **Pa55w.rd**. If prompted to stay signed in, click  **No**.
6.  Review the  **Office 365** page for **Annie**, and then close the web browser.


#### Task 6: Enable SSO for apps in the Azure gallery
  
1.  On  **LON-CL2**, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.azure.com**.
2.  On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, click **SIGN OUT**, and then click  **SIGN IN**.
3.  On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, click **Use another account**, and then sign in with the administrator account that is associated with your Azure trial tenant subscription.
4.  On the Azure portal, click  **Azure Active Directory**, and then click  **Enterprise applications**.
5.  Click  **New application**.
6.  In the  **Add an application** window, type **Skype** in the search text box, and then press Enter.
7.  Click  **Skype**, and then in the right pane, click  **Add**.
8.  Close the  **Add an application** window, and close the **Categories** window.
9.  Click  **All applications**, and then click  **Skype**.
10.  In the  **Skype** window, click **Users and groups**.
11.  Click  **Add user**, and then click  **None Selected**.
12.  In the  **Users and groups** window, select **Abbi Skinner**, click  **Select**, and then click  **Assign**.
13.  In the middle navigation pane, click  **Single sign-on**, and then in the right pane, click  **Password-based**. Click  **Save**.
14.  At the top right of the  **Azure portal** page, click your Azure account name, and then click **Sign out**.
15.  In the Microsoft Edge window, click the three dots icon in the top right corner, and then click  **New** **InPrivate** window.
16.  In the new browser window, type  **https://myapps.microsoft.com** in the address bar, and then press Enter.
17.  On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, type **Abbi\@_yourdomain_._hostdomain_.com**, and then click  **Continue**.
18.  On the  **Adatum Corporation** page, sign in as **Abbi\@_yourdomain_._hostdomain_.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
19.  On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, ensure that you see Skype in the list of apps.
20.  Close Microsoft Edge.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, students will have successfully configured single sign-on (SSO) with Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS).


## Exercise 3: Configuring and using Azure AD PIM
  
#### Task 1: Enable Azure AD PIM
  
1.  On your local computer, open the Microsoft Edge browser, and then browse to  **https://portal.azure.com**.
2.  Sign in as  **msnider\@_adatumyyxxxx_.onmicrosoft.com** with _your password_.
3.  On the Azure portal, click  **All** **services**, navigate through the list, and then in the  **IDENTITY** section, click the star icon next to **Azure ADPrivileged Identity Management**. In the left navigation pane, click  **Azure ADPrivileged Identity Management**.
4.  In the  **Privileged Identity Management** window, click **Consent to PIM**.
5.  In the right pane, click  **Verify my identity**.
6.  On the  **More information required** page, click **Next**.
7.  On the  **Additional security verification** page, ensure that **Authentication phone** is selected in first drop-down list, select your country or region, and then type your mobile phone number. Select the **Send me a code by text message** option, and then click **Contact me**.
8.  On the  **Additional security verification** page, type the code that you received in SMS, and then click **Verify**.
9.  When you receive the "Verification successful!" message, click  **Done**. You will redirect back to the Azure portal.
10.  On the Azure portal, click  **Azure ADPrivileged Identity Management**, and then click  **Consent to PIM**. In the right pane, click  **Consent**, and then click  **Yes**.
11.  Leave the Azure portal open for another task.


#### Task 2: Configure Azure AD PIM
  
1.  In the Azure portal, on the  **Privileged Identity Management - Quick start** page, click **Azure AD directoryroles**, click  **Sign up**, and then click  **Yes**. 
2.  In the left navigation pane, click  **Azure ADPrivileged Identity Management** to refresh the view.
3.  Click  **Azure AD directory roles**.
4.  On the  **Azure AD directory roles** page, click **Members**.
5.  Click the  **User Administrator** item under **Edmund Reeve**, and then click  **Make eligible**.
6.  Close the  **Edmund Reeve** page and verify that his **ACTIVATION** status changed from **Permanent** to **Eligible**.
7.  In the middle pane, click  **Settings**.
8.  On the  **Settings** page, click **Roles**, and then click  **UserAdministrator**.
9.  In the User Administrator pane, click  **Enable** in the **Notifications** section, and then click **Enable** in the **Incident/Request Ticket** section.
10.  Change the  **Maximum Activation duration (hours)** value to **2**. 
11.  In the  **Require approval** section, click **Enable**, and then click  **No approver selected**.
12.  In the  **Search** box, type **Miranda Snider**. Click the account, and then click  **Select**.
13.   Click **Save**. Close the  **User Administrator** page and the **Roles** page.
14.  In the Settings pane, click  **Alerts**.
15.  In the Alerts pane, click  **Roles are being activated too frequently**.
16.  In the Security alert settings pane, in the  **Number of renewals** section, change the value to **7**, and then click  **Save**.
17.  In the Alerts pane, click  **Administrators aren't using their privileged roles**.
18.  On the  **Security alertsettings** page, change the value to **21 days**, and then click  **Save**. Close the  **Security alert settings** page and the **Alerts** page.
19.  Click the  **msnider** account in the top right corner, and then click **Sign out**.


#### Task 3: Use Azure AD PIM
  
1.  On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, click **Use another account**.
2.  Sign in as ereeve\@adatumyyxxxx.onmicrosoft.com with _your password_.
3.  On the Azure portal, click  **All** **services**, navigate through the list, and then click  **Azure AD** **Privileged Identity Management**.
4.  In the  **Privileged Identity Management** pane, click **My roles**.
5.  In the right pane, ensure that you see  **User Administrator**, and then click  **Activate**.
6.  In the User Administrator pane, click the  **Verifying your identity before proceeding** link.
7.  In the Verify my identity pane, click  **Verify my identity**.
8.  On the  **More information required** page, click **Next**.
9.  On the  **Additional security verification** page, ensure that **Authentication phone** is selected in the first drop-down list, select your country or region, and then type your mobile phone number. Select the **Send me a code by text message** option, and then click **Next**.
10.  On the  **Additional security verification** page, type the code that you received in SMS, click **Verify**, and then click  **Done**.
11.  You will redirect back to the Azure portal. In the User Administrator pane, click  **Activate**.
12.  In the Activation pane, in the  **Activation reason** text box, type **User administration**.
13.  In the  **ticket number** text box, type **1**, and then click  **Activate**. You will see a message stating that your request is pending approval.
14.  Close the  **Activation** page, click **My roles** again, and verify that your activation of the User Administrator role is in the pending state.
15.  Click the  **ereeve** account in the top-right corner, and then click **Sign out**.
16.  Browse to  **https://portal.azure.com**, and then sign in with the  **msnider\@_adatumyyxxxx.onmicrosoft.com_** account.
17.  On the Azure portal, click  **All** **services**, navigate to  **Azure ADPrivileged Identity Management**, and then click  **Approve requests**.
18.  In the right pane, click the User Administrator request from Edmund Reeve, and then click  **Approve**.
19.  On the  **Approve selected requests** page, type the text of your choice in the **Approve reason** text box, and click **Approve**. Close the page.
20.  In the Azure AD directory roles pane, click  **Directory roles audit history**.
21.  In the  **Audit history** pane, ensure that you see the **Edmund Reeve** activation of the User Administrator role.
22.  Sign out as  **Miranda Snider** and sign in to portal.azure.com as **Edmund Reeve**.
23.  Navigate to  **Azure AD Privileged Identity Management**.
24.  Click  **My roles**.
25.  Ensure that the User Administrator role is activated for the next two hours.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  - Leave all virtual machines running.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have successfully configured Azure AD Privileged Identity Management (PIM).



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
