# Module 6: Monitoring Azure AD
# Lab: Configuring reporting and monitoring
  
### Scenario
  You are an administrator at Adatum Corporation. You must configure consistent monitoring of activities that occur in Azure AD. Additionally, you need to receive notifications when anomalous activity occurs.


### Objectives
  After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure Azure AD reports and notifications.
- Configure Azure AD monitoring with Azure AD Connect Health.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  Estimated time: 40 minutes

Virtual machines:  **10993B-LON-DS1**

User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

In all tasks:

- When you see references to  _Adatumyyxxxx.onmicrosoft.com_, replace  **Adatumyyxxxx** with the unique domain name that you chose when you created a custom domain in the lab in Module 1, "Introducing Azure AD."
- Replace all instances of  **_yourdomain_** with your unique domain name that appears on the online lab portal.
- Replace all instances of  _hostdomain.com_ with the complete domain name of your lab hosting provider.
- When you see references to the account associated with your Azure subscription, you should use the account that you created in the lab in Module 1, "Introducing Azure AD."

To complete this lab successfully, you must first complete all lab tasks in Module 5.


## Exercise 1: Configuring Azure AD reports and notifications
  
### Scenario
  To detect suspicious activities in Azure AD, you want to explore and use available reports in Azure AD and to configure notifications for password reset in your Azure AD tenant.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Review Azure AD reports
2.  Configure Azure AD notifications


#### Task 1: Review Azure AD reports
  
1.  Sign in to the Azure portal with administrative credentials for your Azure AD tenant.
2.  Browse to the  **Audit logs**.
3.  Review the available reports.
4.  Filter reports for the user object type.
5.  Review the  **Sign-ins** report.
6.  Review  **Notification settings**.


#### Task 2: Configure Azure AD notifications
  
1.  On the Azure portal, on the  **adatum** directory page, open the **Password reset** pane.
2.  Configure notifications for password reset so that both users and admins are notified on password resets.
3.  Save the changes and close the Azure portal.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have successfully configured Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) password reset notifications.


## Exercise 2: Configuring Azure AD monitoring
  
### Scenario
  You want to establish a monitoring infrastructure for Azure AD and your local AD DS and AD FS environment. Additionally, you want continuous monitoring of the syncing between AD DS and Azure AD. You decide to implement Azure AD Connect Health to achieve these results.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Install and configure Azure AD Connect Health for AD FS
2.  Install and configure Azure AD Connect Health for AD DS


#### Task 1: Install and configure Azure AD Connect Health for AD FS
  
1.  On  **LON-DS1**, open the Azure portal and sign in as  **msinder\@_adatumyyxxxx_.onmicrosoft.com.**
2.  Navigate to the Azure AD Connect Health pane.
3.  Download the agent for AD FS by navigating to  **Quick Start**.
4.  Install the agent for AD FS on  **LON-DS1**.
5.  Review reports about AD FS in the Azure AD Connect Health pane.


#### Task 2: Install and configure Azure AD Connect Health for AD DS
  
1.  On  **LON-DC1**, open the Azure portal and sign in as  **msinder\@_adatumyyxxxx_.onmicrosoft.com**.
2.  Navigate to the Azure AD Connect Health pane.
3.  Download the agent for AD DS by navigating to  **Quick Start**.
4.  Install the agent for AD DS on  **LON-DC1**.
5.  Review reports about AD DS in the Azure AD Connect Health pane. 

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have successfully configured Azure AD Connect Health for Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) and Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS).



## 
  
### Review question(s)
  

**Question** 
What report should you use to discover sign-in activities in your Azure AD tenant?

**Question** 
What can you monitor with Azure AD Connect Health?



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
